---
hide:
  - toc
title: 5.1.4 Ensure SSH access is limited
description: There are several options available to limit which users and group can access the system via SSH. It is recommended that at least one of the following options be leveraged
tags:
  - Level 1
  - Workstation
  - Server
  - Access Control
  - Configure SSH Server
  - Automated
  - IG1
  - IG2
  - IG3
  - 3.3 Configure Data Access Control Lists
  - T1021
  - T1021.004
  - TA0008
  - M1018
---

## Audit
Run the following command and verify the output:
```bash
# sshd -T | grep -Pi -- '^\h*(allow|deny)(users|groups)\h+\H+'
```

Verify that the output matches at least one of the following lines:
```bash
allowusers <userlist>
-OR-
allowgroups <grouplist>
-OR-
denyusers <userlist>
-OR-
denygroups <grouplist>
```

Review the list(s) to ensure included users and/or groups follow local site policy
**- IF -** **Match** set statements are used in your environment, specify the connection parameters to use for the **-T** extended test mode and run the audit to verify the setting is not incorrectly configured in a match block
Example additional audit needed for a match block for the user **sshuser**:
```bash
# sshd -T -C user=sshuser | grep -Pi -- '^\h*(allow|deny)(users|groups)\h+\H+'
```

**Note**: If provided, any Match directives in the configuration file that would apply are applied before the configuration is written to standard output. The connection parameters are supplied as keyword=value pairs and may be supplied in any order, either with multiple **-C** options or as a comma-separated list. The keywords are **addr** (source address), **user** (user), **host** (resolved source host name), **laddr** (local address), **lport** (local port number), and **rdomain** (routing domain).

## Remediation
Edit the **/etc/ssh/sshd_config** file to set one or more of the parameters above any **Include** and **Match** set statements as follows:
```bash
AllowUsers <userlist>
- AND/OR -
AllowGroups <grouplist>
```
**Note**:
- First occurrence of an option takes precedence, **Match** set statements withstanding. If **Include** locations are enabled, used, and order of precedence is understood in your environment, the entry may be created in a **.conf** file in a **Include** directory.
- **Be advised** that these options are "ANDed" together. If both **AllowUsers** and **AllowGroups** are set, connections will be limited to the list of users that are also a member of an allowed group. It is recommended that only one be set for clarity and ease of administration.
- It is easier to manage an allow list than a deny list. In a deny list, you could potentially add a user or group and forget to add it to the deny list.

**Default Value:**
None
